---
title: Brief recap of 2021
layout: post
description:
image: /img/2021/12/reflect-think.jpg
---

Phew! A lot happened. I had several big life changes, and some big work changes.

## Looking back

- I wrote [16 articles in 2021](/archive/#2021). Most of them were about accessibility, but a few were notes on talks or thoughts on agile things.
- I gave [3 public talks in 2021](/community/#2021) (at A11y Bytes, WOSSAT, and A11y Camp), 1 talk at a company, and several short little talks at Xero (including five minutes at the Global All Hands meeting, which was great but/and terrifying!).
- Around the end of August I left my job at Totara and started at Xero as a Technical Digital Accessibility Analyst on the Accessibility team. It's my first time working on a team solely focused on accessibility, and it's amazing. I feel very happy with my choice to focus more deeply on what was already my speciality.

## Looking forward

In the next few weeks I'll be thinking ahead a bit to figure out what I want to do in 2022. Setting some goals and milestones and things. I've got some broad ideas already burbling about in my brain.

Some values I want to focus on are being: **supportive**, **inquisitive**, and **positive**. I've had some [explicit positive feedback from colleagues in the past](/2021/03/25/retrospectives-and-strategic-pessimism/) that I do okay with the inquisitive and positive bits. I want to keep that up, and improve. I think I can do better with the supportive bit, especially celebrating successes.

I'm a believer in "forget the noun, do the verb" (which I picked up from the excellent [Keep Going by Austin Kleon](https://austinkleon.com/keepgoing/)). Some verbs I want to focus on this year: **speaking**, **writing**, **teaching / training**.
